{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17760\viewh12520\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/10615/pg10615.txt"}}{\fldrslt http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/10615/pg10615.txt}}\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 THE EPISTLE TO THE READER\
\
READER,\
\
I have put into thy hands what has been the diversion of some of my idle\
and heavy hours. If it has the good luck to prove so of any of thine,\
and thou hast but half so much pleasure in reading as I had in writing\
it, thou wilt as little think thy money, as I do my pains, ill bestowed.\
Mistake not this for a commendation of my work; nor conclude, because I\
was pleased with the doing of it, that therefore I am fondly taken with\
it now it is done. He that hawks at larks and sparrows has no less\
sport, though a much less considerable quarry, than he that flies at\
nobler game: and he is little acquainted with the subject of this\
treatise--the UNDERSTANDING--who does not know that, as it is the most\
elevated faculty of the soul, so it is employed with a greater and more\
constant delight than any of the other. Its searches after truth are a\
sort of hawking and hunting, wherein the very pursuit makes a great\
part of the pleasure. Every step the mind takes in its progress towards\
Knowledge makes some discovery, which is not only new, but the best too,\
for the time at least.\
\
For the understanding, like the eye, judging of objects only by its own\
sight, cannot but be pleased with what it discovers, having less regret\
for what has escaped it, because it is unknown. Thus he who has raised\
himself above the alms-basket, and, not content to live lazily on scraps\
of begged opinions, sets his own thoughts on work, to find and follow\
truth, will (whatever he lights on) not miss the hunter's satisfaction;\
every moment of his pursuit will reward his pains with some delight; and\
he will have reason to think his time not ill spent, even when he cannot\
much boast of any great acquisition.\
\
This, Reader, is the entertainment of those who let loose their own\
thoughts, and follow them in writing; which thou oughtest not to envy\
them, since they afford thee an opportunity of the like diversion, if\
thou wilt make use of thy own thoughts in reading. It is to them, if\
they are thy own, that I refer myself: but if they are taken upon trust\
from others, it is no great matter what they are; they are not following\
truth, but some meaner consideration; and it is not worth while to be\
concerned what he says or thinks, who says or thinks only as he is\
directed by another. If thou judgest for thyself I know thou wilt judge\
candidly, and then I shall not be harmed or offended, whatever be thy\
censure. For though it be certain that there is nothing in this Treatise\
of the truth whereof I am not fully persuaded, yet I consider myself as\
liable to mistakes as I can think thee, and know that this book must\
stand or fall with thee, not by any opinion I have of it, but thy own.\
If thou findest little in it new or instructive to thee, thou art not to\
blame me for it. It was not meant for those that had already mastered\
this subject, and made a thorough acquaintance with their own\
understandings; but for my own information, and the satisfaction of\
a few friends, who acknowledged themselves not to have sufficiently\
considered it.\
\
Were it fit to trouble thee with the history of this Essay, I should\
tell thee, that five or six friends meeting at my chamber, and\
discoursing on a subject very remote from this, found themselves quickly\
at a stand, by the difficulties that rose on every side. After we had\
awhile puzzled ourselves, without coming any nearer a resolution of\
those doubts which perplexed us, it came into my thoughts that we took\
a wrong course; and that before we set ourselves upon inquiries of that\
nature, it was necessary to examine our own abilities, and see what\
OBJECTS our understandings were, or were not, fitted to deal with. This\
I proposed to the company, who all readily assented; and thereupon\
it was agreed that this should be our first inquiry. Some hasty and\
undigested thoughts, on a subject I had never before considered, which\
I set down against our next meeting, gave the first entrance into this\
Discourse; which having been thus begun by chance, was continued by\
intreaty; written by incoherent parcels; and after long intervals of\
neglect, resumed again, as my humour or occasions permitted; and at\
last, in a retirement where an attendance on my health gave me leisure,\
it was brought into that order thou now seest it.\
\
This discontinued way of writing may have occasioned, besides others,\
two contrary faults, viz., that too little and too much may be said in\
it. If thou findest anything wanting, I shall be glad that what I have\
written gives thee any desire that I should have gone further. If it\
seems too much to thee, thou must blame the subject; for when I put pen\
to paper, I thought all I should have to say on this matter would have\
been contained in one sheet of paper; but the further I went the\
larger prospect I had; new discoveries led me still on, and so it grew\
insensibly to the bulk it now appears in. I will not deny, but possibly\
it might be reduced to a narrower compass than it is, and that some\
parts of it might be contracted, the way it has been writ in, by\
catches, and many long intervals of interruption, being apt to cause\
some repetitions. But to confess the truth, I am now too lazy, or too\
busy, to make it shorter. I am not ignorant how little I herein consult\
my own reputation, when I knowingly let it go with a fault, so apt to\
disgust the most judicious, who are always the nicest readers. But they\
who know sloth is apt to content itself with any excuse, will pardon me\
if mine has prevailed on me, where I think I have a very good one. I\
will not therefore allege in my defence, that the same notion, having\
different respects, may be convenient or necessary to prove or\
illustrate several parts of the same discourse, and that so it has\
happened in many parts of this: but waiving that, I shall frankly avow\
that I have sometimes dwelt long upon the same argument, and expressed\
it different ways, with a quite different design. I pretend not to\
publish this Essay for the information of men of large thoughts and\
quick apprehensions; to such masters of knowledge I profess myself a\
scholar, and therefore warn them beforehand not to expect anything here,\
but what, being spun out of my own coarse thoughts, is fitted to men of\
my own size, to whom, perhaps, it will not be unacceptable that I have\
taken some pains to make plain and familiar to their thoughts some\
truths which established prejudice, or the abstractedness of the ideas\
themselves, might render difficult. Some objects had need be turned on\
every side; and when the notion is new, as I confess some of these are\
to me; or out of the ordinary road, as I suspect they will appear to\
others, it is not one simple view of it that will gain it admittance\
into every understanding, or fix it there with a clear and lasting\
impression. There are few, I believe, who have not observed in\
themselves or others, that what in one way of proposing was very\
obscure, another way of expressing it has made very clear and\
intelligible; though afterwards the mind found little difference in the\
phrases, and wondered why one failed to be understood more than the\
other. But everything does not hit alike upon every man's imagination.\
We have our understandings no less different than our palates; and he\
that thinks the same truth shall be equally relished by every one in the\
same dress, may as well hope to feast every one with the same sort of\
cookery: the meat may be the same, and the nourishment good, yet every\
one not be able to receive it with that seasoning; and it must be\
dressed another way, if you will have it go down with some, even of\
strong constitutions. The truth is, those who advised me to publish it,\
advised me, for this reason, to publish it as it is: and since I have\
been brought to let it go abroad, I desire it should be understood by\
whoever gives himself the pains to read it. I have so little affection\
to be in print, that if I were not flattered this Essay might be of some\
use to others, as I think it has been to me, I should have confined\
it to the view of some friends, who gave the first occasion to it. My\
appearing therefore in print being on purpose to be as useful as I may,\
I think it necessary to make what I have to say as easy and intelligible\
to all sorts of readers as I can. And I had much rather the speculative\
and quick-sighted should complain of my being in some parts tedious,\
than that any one, not accustomed to abstract speculations, or\
prepossessed with different notions, should mistake or not comprehend my\
meaning.}